---
date: 
tags:
  - lore
title: 
aliases: 
draft:
---
Gaia is a world of old magic and blossoming technology, where the peoples of the planet’s continents have only recently begun to traverse the globe and discover new lands, extract new resources, and establish new trade routes. Each geographic region has an [[energy node]], a place of natural magical power, that attracts people and creatures. Some have become hubs for each region’s culture centers and industries, both magical and technical. These nodes are also central points for numerous pseudo-religious groups that have coalesced over time into the now dominant religion whose followers are referred to as [[Followers of Gaia]] (Followers for shorthand). Past events birthed two opposing cults - the [[Stewards of Gaia]] and the [[Children of Gaia]] - that follow the general beliefs of the Followers. The Stewards view Gaia and the energy nodes as a natural wonder and advocate for their preservation. Many Stewards have been radicalized and often attack metropolitan areas to protect the “purity” of Gaia and disperse populated areas. The Children (Sons and Daughters) view Gaia and these energy nodes as a resource provided by the planet and most pursue the scientific study and conservative usage of this resource. The radicalized wing of the Children pursue total exploitation of the planet and key sites, some for the “greater good” and some for personal gain. Unfortunately, since the dawn of what is now called the [[The Second Age]], there are no longer many true Followers left as most people under the ancient Gaian religion have become polarized, thus increasing the ranks of the radical groups.

The [[First Age of Gaia]] is a relatively mysterious era that ended during [[The Great Collision]] - a near apocalyptic event that effectively collapsed Gaian civilization and set it back hundreds, if not thousands, of years. This cataclysm was caused by a massive magical experiment by Gaian religious extremists on the [[../major-locations/Aurelian Prime]], the major energy well on Aurelia, to create an artificial power source using a natural energy well. The energy from this experiment warped space-time and forced many of the ethereal and material planes together, causing a massive dimensional collision. The recently coined “[[The Dark Age|Dark Age]]” followed, where the Gaian landscape was forever altered and Gaian life became forever complicated by new intelligent and feral beings, both mortal and immortal. A thousand years of violence and destruction followed as native Gaians and portal interlopers fought for survival during the turmoil of mass and abrupt integration.

Many effects of the Great Collision are poorly understood (if understood at all) and poorly documented, but some are obvious. Most notably, the face of the Gaian planet was drastically altered immediately and over hundreds of years following the Great Collision. The Aurelian continent now features the [[../major-locations/The Great Chasm|Great Chasm]], a perfectly circular and seemingly bottomless hole, hundreds of miles wide, and centered on the site of the Aurelian Prime where the Gaian extremists performed their great experiment. Above the [[../major-locations/The Great Chasm|Chasm]] float the [[../major-locations/The Skyshards|Skyshards]], a vast network of levitating islands of varying sizes and at various altitudes. The [[../major-locations/The Skyshards|Skyshards]] contain, and are themselves, great mysteries and are thus a key focus of explorers and researchers alike, despite the equally great dangers present. It is widely believed that the missing earth in the Chasm was shattered and thrown into the sky, thus forming the Skyshards. To the east was the once massive volcanic land of [[../~dm-pending/~pending-lore/Ignia]], now commonly called the [[../~dm-pending/~pending-lore/Sunken Lands]], a shadow of its former glory but still featuring a rugged landscape with many active volcanoes. A majority of Ignia’s landmass, called The Basin, is now submerged due to an abrupt and massive increase in sea levels during the Great Collision - another great mystery, but one that is beset with rumors of an expansive underwater realm that was pushed into Gaia’s depths as material planes collided. The peoples of the Sunken Lands now live in small colonies on a series of volcanic archipelagos, the last remnants of once majestic mountain ranges and a once glorious empire. Across the sea to the west of Aurelias was a previously unexplored and undocumented continent that has recently been termed the [[../major-locations/The Blasted Lands]], named after the numerous craters and magical remnants that speak to a violent history beset with arcanic explosions. It is unclear if these explosions happened as a result of the Great Collision or if they are even more ancient, as the current magical dating methods are insufficient and inconclusive. Expeditions to  [[../major-locations/The Blasted Lands]] have only recently begun as a result of new [[Airship]] advancements, so all that is known to date is that these lands are extremely dangerous and extremely difficult to reach. Most expeditions have failed to return.

Other changes are visible in the faces of Gaian life. Hordes of feral creatures and intelligent races and species passed through the torn fabric of space-time (via what are now termed “plane portals” or simply “portals”) during the Great Collision. [[../~dm-pending/~pending-lore/Integration]] was difficult and tensions still exist, but a majority of these friendlier races and species have become a core part of Gaian civilization with the native dwarves, elves, and humans. This integration was critical for survival since many beings that came through the portals were violent and feral, monsters of many worlds. These creatures have spread throughout Gaia over the years, but the [[../major-locations/The Skyshards|Skyshards]] contained the greatest number of portals and thus have been and remain the most concentrated home of these monsters. A majority of these portals have faded and closed over time, but the largest and strongest still remain - some even speculate that they may be artificially maintained via magical means. The closure of portals means the influx of peoples and monsters has waned, though it is clear that these new life forms are a permanent addition to Gaia as they breed and spread throughout the land. A last note - many new religions and cultures came through the portals via the intelligent peoples and have integrated into Gaian society. Some scholars speculate that these strong belief systems influenced [[Gaian spiritualism]] with the land and catalyzed modern day polarization. Although unproven, many also believe that some of these new [[Religious Deities]] also passed through some of the portals linking the material planes with the ethereal.

It is 1,084 A.C. (After Collision), 1,084 years after the Great Collision - a peer reviewed and standardized time reference from magical dating studies. Gaian civilization is on the rise after the completion of the great canal around the [[../major-locations/The Great Chasm|Chasm]], dubbed [[../major-locations/The Circle]], and the coalescing of civilized society into [[../~dm-pending/~pending-lore/Political Bodies]] ruling central Aurelia.  This relatively recent meteoric rise has led to historians now calling the current period the [[The Second Age]], and generally agreeing that [[The Dark Age]] has concluded. Society has, for the most part, integrated with the new intelligent species and found ways to defend against the new feral creatures who passed through the torn fabric of the Great Collision. The Aurelian continent was the most rich in energy nodes and, though it was the source of the Great Collision, has risen the swiftest of all the Gaian lands. Also being the site of the Great [[../major-locations/The Great Chasm|Chasm]] and the [[../major-locations/The Skyshards|Skyshards]], it galvanized the development of [[Airship]] technology and boosted both the magical and technological fields. Conflict, exploitation, and oppression are close bedfellows for Aurelians, but so are exploration, research, and the arts as Gaian civilization stabilizes and begins to learn the truths of its new world.